DOCS-3103: Add Go to Hello World Module how-to (#3730)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/how-tos/hello-world-module.md

   ```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-start="29"}
    package main

    import (
        "context"
        "hello-world/models"

        "go.viam.com/rdk/components/camera"
        "go.viam.com/rdk/components/sensor"
        "go.viam.com/rdk/logging"
        "go.viam.com/rdk/module"
        "go.viam.com/utils"
    )

    func main() {
        utils.ContextualMain(mainWithArgs, module.NewLoggerFromArgs("hello-world"))
    }

    func mainWithArgs(ctx context.Context, args []string, logger logging.Logger) error {
        helloWorld, err := module.NewModuleFromArgs(ctx)
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }

        if err = helloWorld.AddModelFromRegistry(ctx, camera.API, models.HelloCamera); err != nil {
            return err
        }

        if err = helloWorld.AddModelFromRegistry(ctx, sensor.API, models.HelloSensor); err != nil {
            return err
        }

        err = helloWorld.Start(ctx)
        defer helloWorld.Close(ctx)
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }

        <-ctx.Done()
        return nil
    }
   ```

   Save the file.<br><br>

> 1. Change all instances of "temporary" in <file>hello-world/models/hello-sensor.go</file>:<br><br>

Reviewer: I think it's just one instance?
```suggestion
1. Change all instances of `"temporary"` in <file>hello-world/models/hello-sensor.go</file>:<br><br>
```

Author: ```suggestion
1. Change all instances of `temporary` in <file>hello-world/models/hello-sensor.go</file>:<br><br>
```

    Save the <file>hello-world/src/main.py</file> file.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

3. Edit the file structure:<br><br>

   1. Change the name of <file>hello-world/models/module.go</file> to <file>hello-camera.go</file> and change the name of the <file>/models/</file> folder to <file>hellocamera</file> so you have <file>hello-world/hellocamera/hello-camera.go</file>.<br><br>

   1. In the first line of <file>hello-camera.go</file>, change `package models` to `package hellocamera`.<br><br>

   1. Change the name of <file>temporary/models/module.go</file> to <file>hello-sensor.go</file> and change the name of its folder to <file>hellosensor</file>.
      Move the <file>hellosensor</file> folder from <file>temporary</file> to <file>hello-world</file> so you have <file>hello-world/hellosensor/hello-sensor.go</file>.<br><br>

>    1. In the first line of <file>hello-sensor.go</file>, change `package models` to `package hellosensor`.<br><br>

Reviewer 2: We probably shouldn't tell them to update the directory names, but just the file names. So the file structure should be `hello-world/models/hello-camera.go` and `hello-world/models/hello-sensor.go`, both with the package name `package models`.

Author: What will the generator do when multi-model modules are added to its capabilities? Will it put them all in one models folder?

Author: I made all the necessary changes to get it to work but this way feels like more work for the user than making a directory per model, with the current way the files are generated. I think it'd be great if Config was named `mysensorConfig` or something by default.

Reviewer 2: Likely when the generator can do multiple, it'll all be in the `models` directory

1. Open <file>hello-world/main.go</file>.
   You need to add the necessary imports and define how it adds the sensor model from the registry.
   Delete all the contents and replace them with the following:<br><br>

   ```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-start="29"}
    package main

    import (
        "context"
        "hello-world/hellocamera"
        "hello-world/hellosensor"

        "go.viam.com/rdk/components/camera"
        "go.viam.com/rdk/components/sensor"
        "go.viam.com/rdk/logging"
        "go.viam.com/rdk/module"
        "go.viam.com/utils"
    )

    func main() {
        utils.ContextualMain(mainWithArgs, module.NewLoggerFromArgs("hello-world"))
    }

    func mainWithArgs(ctx context.Context, args []string, logger logging.Logger) error {
        helloWorld, err := module.NewModuleFromArgs(ctx)
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }

        if err = helloWorld.AddModelFromRegistry(ctx, camera.API, hellocamera.HelloCamera); err != nil {
            return err
        }

        if err = helloWorld.AddModelFromRegistry(ctx, sensor.API, hellosensor.HelloSensor); err != nil {
            return err

>         }

Reviewer 2: Then here, we add `models.HelloCamera` and `models.HelloSensor`

Author: And we also change Config to sensorConfig, and we take out the declaration of `errUnimplemented = errors.New("unimplemented")` from hello-sensor.go

> Edit the stub files to add the logic from your test script in a way that works with the camera and sensor APIs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the stub files to add the logic from your test script in a way that works with the camera and sensor APIs.
```

1. Add the following to the list of imports at the top of <file>hello-world/models/hello-camera.go</file>:

   ```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-start="6"}
   "os"
   "reflect"
   "io/ioutil"
   ```

1. Add `imagePath = ""` to the global variables so you have the following:

   ```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-line="22" data-start="19" data-line-offset="19"}
   var (
       HelloCamera      = resource.NewModel("jessamy", "hello-world", "hello-camera")
       errUnimplemented = errors.New("unimplemented")
       imagePath        = ""
   )
   ```

1. In the test script you hard-coded the path to the image.
   For the module, let's make the path a configurable attribute so you or other users of the module can set the path from which to get the image.

   Edit the `type Config struct` definition, replacing the comments with the following:

   ```go {class="line-numbers" data-start="33"}
   type Config struct {
       resource.AlwaysRebuild
       ImagePath string `json:"image_path"`
   }
   ```

   This adds the `image_path` attribute and causes the resource to rebuild each time the configuration is changed.

> 1. Delete the `Reconfigure()` function entirely, since the camera will rebuild instead of reconfiguring.

Reviewer: People at this point haven't encountered these concepts so I think we need to provide some context
```suggestion
1. Delete the `Reconfigure()` function.
   Some models use it to reconfigure attributes but in this case we'll have the camera rebuild instead of reconfiguring.
```

Reviewer: Are you missing the step where you uncomment "resource.TriviallyReconfigurable" ? Because this alone does not work

Author: Oop I'll just delete this step.

> 
> 1. Delete the `Reconfigure()` function entirely, since the camera will rebuild instead of reconfiguring.

Author: ```suggestion
```
Ooh actually can just delete this step

1. We are not providing a default image but rely on the end user to supply a valid path to an image when configuring the resource.
   This means `image_path` is a required attribute.

>    Add the following code to the `Validate` function to throw an error if `image_path` isn't configured or isn't a string:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Replace the `Validate` function with the following function to throw an error if `image_path` isn't configured or isn't a string:
```

Author: ```suggestion
   Replace the `Validate` function with the following code to throw an error if `image_path` isn't configured or isn't a string:
```
Okay yeah. Changing to "code" so as not to imply it's a totally different function.

   func (cfg *Config) Validate(path string) ([]string, error) {
     var deps []string
     if cfg.ImagePath == "" {
         return nil, resource.NewConfigValidationFieldRequiredError(path, "image_path")
     }
     if reflect.TypeOf(cfg.ImagePath).Kind() != reflect.String {
         return nil, errors.New("image_path must be a string.")
     }
     imagePath = cfg.ImagePath
     return deps, nil
   }
   ```

1. The module generator created a stub for the `Image` function we want to implement:

   ```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-start="103" }
   func (s *helloWorldHelloCamera) Image(ctx context.Context, mimeType string, extra map[string]interface{}) ([]byte, camera.ImageMetadata, error) {
       panic("not implemented")
   }
   ```

   You need to replace `panic("not implemented")` with code to actually implement the method:

   ```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-start="104" }
   imgFile, err := os.Open(imagePath)
   if err != nil {
     return nil, camera.ImageMetadata{}, errors.New("Error opening image.")
   }
   defer imgFile.Close()
   imgByte, err := ioutil.ReadFile(imagePath)
   return imgByte, camera.ImageMetadata{}, nil
   ```

> 1. Delete the `SubscribeRTP` and `Unsubscribe` methods, since they are not applicable to this camera.

Reviewer: does it matter if we leave them in?

Author: It's marginally easier to delete than copy paste more lines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Delete the `SubscribeRTP` and `Unsubscribe` methods. They are not applicable to this camera.
```

   }

   func (s *helloWorldHelloCamera) NextPointCloud(ctx context.Context) (pointcloud.PointCloud, error) {
       return nil, errors.New("not implemented")
   }

   func (s *helloWorldHelloCamera) Properties(ctx context.Context) (camera.Properties, error) {
       return camera.Properties{}, errors.New("not implemented")
   }

   func (s *helloWorldHelloCamera) DoCommand(ctx context.Context, cmd map[string]interface{}) (map[string]interface{}, error) {
       return map[string]interface{}{}, errors.New("not implemented")
   }
   ```

1. Save the file.

### Implement the sensor API

{{< expand "Click if you are also creating a sensor component" >}}

Now edit the sensor class definition to implement the sensor API.
You don't need to edit any of the validate or configuration methods because you're not adding any configurable attributes for the sensor model.

1. Add `"math/rand"` to the list of imports in <file>hello-sensor.go</file> for the random number generation.<br><br>

1. Since `errUnimplemented` and `Config` are defined in <file>hello-camera.go</file>, you need to change <file>hello-sensor.go</file> to avoid redeclaring them:<br><br>

>    - Delete line 20, `errUnimplemented = errors.New("unimplemented")` from <file>hello-sensor.go</file>.<br><br>

Reviewer: this is line 16 for me. I think it may be impractical to add the line numbers while things with the generator are still changing a lot

Author: Oh you're right it should be 16 or 17 but it depends how many newlines they added to imports. Yes it's hard to maintain but it does make it much  easier to follow if it's right....and if it's off by only a line or two I think it'll be okay. I will change the *Config *sensorConfig to a search-replace but for the others since they're one-offs I don't think it makes sense to?

>    - Delete line 20, `errUnimplemented = errors.New("unimplemented")` from <file>hello-sensor.go</file>.<br><br>

Author: ```suggestion
   - Delete line 16, `errUnimplemented = errors.New("unimplemented")` from <file>hello-sensor.go</file>.<br><br>
```

   - On line 27, change `type Config struct {` to `type sensorConfig struct {`.<br><br>

>    - On lines 21, 39, 48, and 63, change `*Config` to `*sensorConfig`:<br><br>
> 
>    ```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-start="21" }
>     resource.Registration[sensor.Sensor, *sensorConfig]{
>    ```
> 
>    ```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-start="39" }
>    func (cfg *sensorConfig) Validate(path string) ([]string, error) {
>    ```
> 
>    ```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-start="48" }
>    cfg    *sensorConfig
>    ```
> 
>    ```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-start="63" }
>    conf, err := resource.NativeConfig[*sensorConfig](rawConf)
>    ```
> 

Author: ```suggestion
   - Search for all instances of `*Config` in <file>hello-sensor.go</file> and change them to `*sensorConfig`.

```

   This environment is where the local module will run.
   `viam-server` does not need to run inside this environment.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

> 1. Use Go to compile your module into a single executable:
> 
>    - Navigate to your <file>hello-world</file> module directory in your terminal.
>    - Run `make` and then `make setup` to install dependencies.
>    - Run `go build` to compile your entry point (main program) file <file>main.go</file> and all other <file>.go</file> files in the directory, building your module and all dependencies into a single executable file.

Reviewer: We can simplify this and make it copy pastable. I don't want to have to read through text to skim for commands I need to run.
```suggestion
1. From within the <file>hello-world</file> directory, compile your module into a single executable:

   ```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$" data-output="5-10"}
   make
   make setup
   go build
   ```
```

Reviewer: Shouldn't we run 
```
make setup
make
```
It looks like the make command already runs go build?

Author: I only got build errors when I ran go build, not make or make setup, so I used that to debug. Will ask SME.

Author: ```suggestion
1. From within the <file>hello-world</file> directory, compile your module into a single executable:
	
	   ```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$" data-output="5-10"}
	   make setup
	   make build
```

>    Compiling your Go module also generates the `go.mod` and `go.sum` files that define dependency resolution in Go.
> 
>    See the [Go compilation documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/go#hdr-Compile_packages_and_dependencies) for more information.

Reviewer: I think it's fine to assume that people here will know how to use the programming language they choose
```suggestion
```
